---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

DressingTools<sup>2</sup> (DT2) is a simple but **advanced**, **non-destructive** and automated cabinet system. Dressing an avatar is **as simple as** either one-click from the tool window or drag-and-drop to the avatar root.

It can also be **as advanced as** customizing all the avatar, wearable toggles and blendshapes. But mostly this **can be automatically drafted for you within a wizard!**

Since v2, DressingTools is not a VRChat-only software and do not require neither DynamicsBones nor VRCSDK to be installed to work.

## Alpha stage

DressingTools<sup>2</sup> is currently in :warning: **alpha development stage** and lots of "dreamed" features are currently not completed. Feel free to try it but it is :warning: **currently usable, but unstable and feature-lacking**.

To keep track of development, the lacking features and issues will be marked in the the issue tracker, and assigned to a specific milestone of release.

These are the major features that DT2 aimed to have:

- VRCSDK and DynamicBones not required
- Cabinet system
- Animation generation for wearables
- Bone mapping preview and overriding
- Animator merging
- Mixing different clothes for toggling
- Sharable wearable configuration
- Centralized wearable configuration

Active milestones:

https://github.com/poi-vrc/DressingTools/milestones

## Why v2 exists?

The previous version 1.0 originally aims to let users to have a simple, simplified and customizable workflow. And some features like cabinet, animation generation etc. were not planned in mind and became so hard to develop without a large-scale of refactor, which finally turns out to be version 2.0.

The refactor to 2.0 aims for future extensibility and cabinet system. Thus, a lot of code-binding has been removed in the progress and refactored to a much better strucuture.

## Difference with v1

Concept in applying the clothes have been changed. Instead of calling "clothes" are clothes, they are called "wearables" in v2. Wearables do not necessarily contain an Armature, and theoretically any items can be attached to the avatar in v2.

Bone mappings are first generated by an entity called a Dresser, and they will be applied by another entity called an Applier at the later stage.

To assemble a wearable into an avatar, a wearable configuration is required, which contains all the required toggles and various items when processing with an integration. It is not code-bonded and can be shared to your friends or the Internet without the tool and the original prefabs. The wearable configuration is expected to be automatically drafted by the tool in the development.

More details will be disclosed in the online documentation in the future.
